Cormrighted taterial

10 vorume 1, rant 1

him on to the Ambassador's reception; she was wearing a ballgown
enhanced by a maid of honour's monogram. The young Princess
Bolkonsky, a slip of a girl known as the most seductive woman in
Petersburg, was there too; married the previous winter, she no longer
appeared at large occasions because she was pregnant, but she did still
attend small soirées. Prince Vasily's son, Prince Hippolyte, arrived
with Mortemart, and introduced him. Also present were the Abbé
Morio and many other people.

Anna Pavlovna was welcoming her guests as they arrived with a
'Have you met my aunt?" or 'I don't think you know my aunt' before
steering them with great solemnity towards a little old lady with big
bows in her hair, who had come sailing in from the next room as soon
as the guests had begun to arrive. Anna Pavlovna would announce
them by name, slowly transferring her gaze from guest to aunt, and
then move on. All the guests went through the motions of greeting
this aunt, who was unknown, uninteresting and unneeded by anyone.
Anna Pavlovna observed their greetings with sadness and solemn
sympathy, a picture of silent approval. The lady known as 'my aunt'
spoke in the same way to every new arrival, commenting on their
health, her own health and the health of her Majesty, who was by
now, thank God, feeling better. All those who approached were polite
enough to refrain from showing undue haste, but once this onerous
duty had been fulfilled they walked away from the old lady with a
sense of relief, and never went near her again all evening.

Young Princess Bolkonsky had brought some work with her in
a gold-embroidered velvet bag. Her pretty litle upper lip, slightly
shadowed with down, barely covered her teeth, but that made it all
the prettier when it rose up and lovelier still when it curled down to
meet the lower lip. As tends to happen with the best-looking women,
a defect - in this case a short lip and a half-open mouth - came out as
a distinctive and beautiful feature. Everyone enjoyed the sight of this
pretty little mother-to-be, brimming with health and vitality and
making light of her condition. After a few minutes in her company
and the exchange of a word or two, old men and bored, morose young
men felt as if they themselves were becoming like her. Anyone who
talked to her, watching her as every word she spoke revealed that
bright ltte smile and the constant gleam of those dazzling white teeth,
walked away feeling full of bonhomie. Everybody did.

The litle princess waddled slightly as she tripped rapidly round the
table, holding her tiny workbag, then she cheerfully smoothed down
her dress and sat on a sofa near the silver samovar. Everything she did
seemed like a treat for herself and everyone around her.

Cormrighted taterial

